[Music]
$500 how am I supposed to build a PC on
a budget when the part you plug the
actual good stuff in the flipping
motherboard costs as much as my entire
first computer wait I've got one idea
you see the motherboard is one of the
easiest parts to accidentally break when
you're building a PC meaning many people
have broken them and eBay is flooded
with cheap broken boards that are just
begging lius please fix me but can they
be fixed to find out we bought one then
we bought another one then we bought six
more oh my goodness and the best part is
as far as we can tell fixing most of
these motherboards should be an easy
path to savings you did not tell me that
today was going to be this challenging
let's go and the top snapped off just
like this easy segue to our sponsor I
fix it this just announced their fix Hub
power series lineup which includes a
portable soldering station a soldering
toolkit and a 100 wat smart soldering
iron go check it out at the link in the
video
description in the old days the most
delicate part of a computer was the
little pins on the bottom of the CPU if
you so much has looked at those things
sideways they could end up sideway ways
the good thing about CPU pins though was
that they were relatively easy to repair
and in fact we've done a couple videos
in the past on how you can fix
everything from broken to outright
removed ones unfortunately that's not
going to help you that much if you have
a modern system because both AMD and
Intel have moved the pins from the CPU
where they're their liability to the
motherboard where they are someone
else's liability and in the process
they've made them even more fragile you
so much as get a little bit of hair
caught on one of these and pull it with
the force of a mosquito's Wings taking
off and your motherboard goes from
wicked fast gaming to
Wicked brick and there's all kinds of
ways that this can accidentally happen
leave your motherboard sitting out
without the little plastic socket cover
you're probably going to end up with a
bent pin see a little bit of dust in
there and go to pick it out you guessed
it bent pin I've personally bent pins on
a number of occasions yep me too too do
we have that one on camera when you
dropped the CPU in the socket as you
were trying to put it in no that one
wasn't repairable anyway I've also bent
them back many times and ended up with a
perfectly working motherboard the
question then is can I apply those
skills to a socket that was Bent by
somebody else starting with this azrock
z690 extreme Wi-Fi 6E you're actually
going to notice there's going to be a
pattern in the boards we're trying to
fix we mostly tried to Target higher end
ones because those are the ones that are
the most worth putting in our time in
order to fix the story for this guy is
that he's a customer return that was
untested and untested is actually a good
thing in this case even though we can't
necessarily believe that because eBay
sellers can lie if it is truly untested
that means that no one else has taken a
crack at it potentially causing further
damage it also means that there's a
better chance that it can be repaired
because if someone already tried and
it's still dead well let's see what
wasn't worth them bothering to test oh
well there's something those two pins
look bent but very fixable but the one
I'm actually more worried about is this
spot right here that looks like it could
be a missing or broken off pin out right
and those are a lot harder to deal with
without specialty tools oh look at that
you can barely even tell now dude Alex
find me the pins that were bent oh are
we not recording here oh oh we missed it
all right well well they were there you
saw them in the Pro Blends now they're
not there yep that's not the one that I
was most worried about though the one
I'm most worried about is the one that
looks more like it's missing in this
corner I can't even see
it I might need a bit of a different
angle here uh-oh oh there it is
oh we're just oh that's bad news the way
these are made up there's kind of like a
spring portion on the bottom and then
there's another one that goes the other
way way and then there's like a ball
like a little contact pad on the bottom
that touches the bottom of the CPU if
that breaks off your only hope is to
kind of force the spring portion up so
that that contacts the pad on the bottom
of the
CPU with that said some of these pins
are extra ground connections or unused
pins that might have been for testing
purposes or reserved for future
functionality and aren't needed now we
could painstakingly look up exactly what
that pin does but now that we fixed the
other two the faster way to deal with
this would probably be to just throw a
CPU in here and see if it works I don't
know if I'm going to do that though I
think I'm going to I think I'm going to
go for gold it looks like there's just
one of them that is little busted here I
found a diagram of what does what on LGA
1700 oh brilliant we're five in from the
very bottom it's a ground pin maybe
maybe that's what we think there might
be one more here at the edge
ah oh wow yeah this guy got
mangul have you tried to fix any of
these yet Alex no it's an adventure day
we have so many and they were all so
cheap that even if we only get like two
we win like did you tell them how much
this motherboard cost us I don't think I
did do you know how much this
motherboard cost us I don't think I do0
$30 30 bucks and all I have to do is
this yeah and then you have $170 savings
dude I'm totally going to get this
one and the top snapped off I think I
might have that in position enough so
what we're looking at right here is this
little nubbin at the end of this it just
needs to touch where this pad does on
the in between these two see that so as
long as we can bring it up high enough
we should have contact is it ideal no
but it wasn't ideal when doofus mcpy
here did whatever he did to his socket
that's not my fault I think the bigger
question we should be asking is why is
this motherboard bent oh wow which CPU
did you choose uh it's a 12 700k that
way we don't need to worry about if it
needs a new bios or anything like that
we're just going to throw some goop on
approximately where the die is cuz it's
not like we're going to be gaming on
them we're just testing for basic
functionality then AMD coolers are great
for this because they just kind of go on
there and then we're good to go I think
I figured out why the motherboards bent
whoever it is dropped it that does not
necessarily preclude it working though
let's give it a shot I think NZXT asked
us to use this power supply this is
their new C1500 it's 80 plus Platinum
obviously can do up to 1,500 watts and
given what nvidia's 50 Series cards are
rumored to be sucking back that may be
more necessary than you'd think anyway
what let's flip her
on this is by no means a guarantee yet
though CPU dram are both illuminated we
can try another memory slot it's
possible that one of the pins that is
bent is a pin that's needed for the
operation of that memory slot so let's
go ahead and give this another shot here
shall
we I don't think this is doing anything
right now sure doesn't seem like it it
doesn't mean we're cooked but it does
mean that our time might be better spent
making some notes and moving on to
another board for now now for our next
victim this is an MSI Pro z690 a WiFi we
paid 35 bucks for it and it's worth over
200 new if we can get it working the
seller claims this is an Amazon return
and that it is UN tested this has
clearly been installed and it looks like
it's been installed more than once to me
the other thing that stands out to me is
there is thermal paste on this thing
everywhere fingerprints oh you do not
even know the half of it
oh it's in the socket it's all over the
ilm buddy I don't have any genius ideas
for how to remove that I mean
theoretically if it's non-conductive and
non-capacitive it shouldn't really
matter this was my idea just give her a
rinse
[Music]
down why would you not do this over the
sink it's fine n it's good it's good did
that work at all honestly I don't think
so remember we only need the top to be
clean that'll
do while we wait for that to dry let's
take a look at victim number three this
one we did not get from eBay oh where
did we get this one we got this from we
broke
it next up we've got a proart z690
Creator Wi-Fi very expensive board which
makes this one's origin all the more
troubling to me oh Alex yeah who did
this I was told who made this system mhm
I don't need to be a Arc right now now
something I am wondering is if anyone
has actually tried to just fire this
thing up see if it works that was my
question as well cuz a lot of the times
people will be like oh it doesn't work
but if we just put the ram in the other
slots maybe it's fine there's a little
tooth here so if I could bend that back
into shape maybe I could put it back in
and that would at least hold the pins in
Place Alex you did not not tell me that
today was going to be this challenging
In fairness that first one I did not
look at close enough and not realize it
would be that
challenging mhm as you can see these
pins right here are kind of in the right
spot so as long as they have enough
spring in them there you go see those
are in the right spot but these guys
have popped out so the top of the pin
should be sticking through this little
hole so what I want to do is I want to
take my pin bend them down and push them
over so they go into the right spot here
oh did that go in yes
sick hey there you go all right what are
my odds I think it's solid 50/50 the
good news is so far the MSRP of these
three boards is
$870 and we have only spent
155 this light is green I need to see
more than a green light though the
lights say it's booted I know it's not a
KF is it I don't think so I didn't think
so either that would mean it doesn't
have onboard video do we want to just
put a GPU in it by all accounts it's
working other than that it isn't working
get on there buddy this one needs to
work cuz it makes our Math Workout so
well if we can get this $470 motherboard
going we can claim some nonsense in the
title for
sure it
does is this a 24 gig memory stick I
really hope it is yes oh good let's go
for bonus points I want to try this
memory slot so I lifted up this little
piece of metal here lifted it up
squeezed it back together then slid it
back down so that's what's holding the
slot together now that was what was
broken out before so in
theory I will be able to just put a
memory stick into it and it'll just
work that was God messaging says he's on
my side today let's
go no way will it run it at full speed
if we want to try running at full speed
we should put in crappier Ram that's
fair okay let's save that as a bonus
objective either way we are one for
three now now that we know that this
works do you want deploy to one of our
internal workstations also that who made
it
Elijah I'm going to go get that one that
was drying off odds on this
one uh oh the power switch pins are bent
I think 47% odds really yeah who let's
go no I optim hey hey hey hey hey hey
how we doing hey hey oh hey how you
doing oh this is great
dude
dude I can't believe that just spraying
a bunch of isopropyl on it worked even
though that was my only plan clean it
Huck it to
dry motherboard boots up easy hold on
hold on hold on I want to see I want to
see dual Channel operation I want to see
dual Channel operation here oh I'm
stoked right now I got to say
I would always read eBay listings
assuming untested meant I tested it and
it doesn't work and I don't want to be
on the hook for it that's what I always
assumed so I've never really gotten into
this stuff oh like in that GPU one I
flicked a bio switch on one of them and
it started working like people actually
don't test them that's crazy like we are
one for three no one for two of the eBay
ones and we're two for three overall and
so far we've only spent like an hour and
a half on this and we only have a bunch
of way worse ones 's coming well show me
that dual Channel
operation yeah
buddy as far as we can tell fixed
motherboard actually working now to be
clear there can be issues that can crop
up random instability just because it
posts doesn't mean that this is a fully
functioning motherboard and we'd want to
give it a fuller Suite of testing before
we say 100% if it works also it is worth
noting that this board even though it
was 210 $1 new you can get a refurbished
one for 90 bucks oh which makes our $35
that we spent on it not as good but
still still good 35 bucks still good yep
still very good next up we've got a
prime z690 M plus D4 which we got for 60
bucks but retails for 260 why is it so
much I don't know also the listing said
no turbo bent pins bent pins affect the
cpu's ability to Turbo boost
maybe can confirm definitely bent pins I
made it worse oh I accidentally bent it
too much the opposite way now I got to
go back yeah you want to avoid doing
that as much as possible because the
more that you bend the pins the more
likely it is that they are going to
break these are made out of copper which
is really good for cold working which
means that it actually gets stronger the
more that you bend it which is kind of
not what you would expect but here we've
got the PIN and I've drawn roughly what
the grain structure would look like
inside of it basically when your metal
cools down it just kind of randomly
decides where it's going to grow
crystals and it looks something like
that as you bend it little cracks are
going to form something like that and
some of these crystals are going to move
against each other but as you do that
more and more and more the chances that
one of these cracks terminates in one of
the other cracks that you've already
made is better so it gets stronger but
you do too many of them all over the
place
and it's gone the good news is I think I
got that one back in position nice the
bad news is that I think there's more
ooh it's just hard to hold steady enough
that might be good enough oh man this
one too
jeez buddy I think this one's going to
work oh hey Dash I don't know what's
going to happen here but what I do know
is that we're going for bonus marks on
this
one oh
oh we are right into Windows folks I'm
feeling really good there we go okay
what's this CPU supposed to Turbo to 12
700k up to 5 GHz okay I want to see one
of my cores turboing up to 5 GHz then I
don't think it's going to go that high
but I mean they're at
4.5 that's not base clock is it no
that's way higher than base clock but
ALS also
just not really a clock speed that makes
sense how's our package
power 32 watts that seems really low
it's only for one core though you know
what before we do anything more this is
a 2-year-old bios I think an update is
probably in order yeah let's get you the
other ASRock z690 extreme and see if
that one works cool can confirm bent
pins lots of bent pins I can't even see
this one in the microscope there's some
junk in there so that's not actually a
bent pin that's just some
[Music]
junk I think I'm getting better at this
just doing a few boards today what's a
microscope like this worth like 100
bucks
70 not bad oh that's a bad one that's
bad this one right
here oh yeah oh nailed that one oh what
was that like 5 minutes it's way less
than the time it takes to update a bios
that's for sure nice hey this bios has
flashed though let's find out if this
one turbos before we try that one then
what was it last time it was 4.5 right
yep 4.9 heck yeah let's go wo all right
turbo Works let's do a multi-core bench
and see what happens there you go bunch
of them at 4.7 4.8 yeah oh dude this is
a this is a working great turboing
working
motherboard sweet what do we pay for it
60 bucks 60 bucks if I'm calling this
one fixed y dude our stats at the end of
this are going to look sick if we can
keep this up dude it just
worked just worked oh my God this is
sick I don't even know what to tell you
other
than this didn't post before right it
was completely not working like you saw
those pins oh yeah I guess that's true
sick okay one thing that I would like to
check though just because two of them
slots work doesn't necessarily mean they
all work those two working pretty good
indicator that's true and those are the
main ones that matter because as soon as
you populate all four slots you're going
to be giving up some speed but I'd be
curious to see if all of them work on
this board okay so Alex will work on
that while I crack open this supposedly
nothing wrong with it z790
udac do you happen to remember what we
paid for this bad boy we paid $66 and I
looked at it and apparently the listing
says that two Ram slots don't work okay
which would normally indicate either a
problem with the pins in the socket that
connect to the ram slots or a problem
with the ram slots both of which are
things we've tackled today and also if
two of the ram slots just plain work are
you willing to give up two Ram slots to
just like save 170 bucks or whatever I
would you would be saving
$133 still yeah that CPU went to 5.3
gigahertz almost immediately oh and it's
really hot now I'm actually gonna stop
yeah I don't have a proper cooler on
this one Alex but she works yeah it
works great that moment when you repair
five motherboards and cook a
CPU that'll wipe out your savings pretty
quick dude I got to back you up on this
one I do not see a problem feel like we
need to get this on the bench
oh no way
dude it's into windows dude just skipped
the BIOS dude did they have a bad CPU
and just thought it was the motherboard
and sold it or maybe they had like a
14th gen and it has an older bios this
was supposed to be the curveball where
it was like it looks fine why is it
broken it's just not
broken I've heard of this I mean you
said when we bought all the video cards
one of them just you hit a bio switch
and it just worked yeah user error I
mean if user error can break the pins
and you you bend the ram slot then user
error can just have no idea how to put a
computer together clearly yeah the BIOS
is from uh July of 2023 so I wonder if
they just bought a 14th gen popped it in
here it didn't work and they just didn't
know how to troubleshoot it and then
nobody checked it when it was returned
14900 K launch October 17th yep that's
probably what happened $200 MSRP got it
for 66
bucks not bad I think repairing
motherboards from eBay is my new career
like seriously I'm making some of the
best money I've made in a while doing
this this is great dude okay if I didn't
have to film any of this I've only spent
like a couple hours fixing boards today
and I've made hundreds of dollars the
only one that didn't work was 15 bucks
speaking of which let's look at some
other ones that might not work all right
let's do it I can't believe how much fun
I'm having
today do you want to see one that's not
so fun I would love to this one is $210
normally we paid 56 I think I found the
problem so the listing for this one says
the board looks perfect seems just
untested this one might be super
easy this socket is mangled dude it is
possible that it was fine when they sent
it it was shipped without a socket cover
so it might have just got completely
mangled in shipping I blame the seller
at that point you can't ship a
motherboard without a socket cover also
it's covered in thermal goop right there
there's supposed to be a thing and that
one oh my goodness they're bent backward
there's no way that happened in shipping
seller's a liar seller's a liar
dude there's also
this dude the only way they could be
more of a lying seller is if they were a
dishonest below floor below ground house
basement what a lying seller uh uh dude
I think I just got one of them see the
pins are really small but the pads on
the bottom of the CPU are not that small
so as long as you can
nail that pad space and not hit the one
next to it then you're good my success
rate today is cray cray dude I think I
just nailed this one I don't want to
give you guys unrealistic expectations
our rate of success today is very high
and I wouldn't expect to have the same
but we also have shown with a sample
size of far more than one that this is a
thing that you can do and potentially
succeed at as much fun as I'm having it
also makes me sad that people just
discard stuff like did anyone even try
to fix these boards if they had they'd
still have them and they'd still be
working just seems wasteful okay what do
we pay for this one and what's it worth
again this is uh z790 PG lightning we
paid $56 and it is worth
210 keyboard keyboard did something wait
for it
dude holy
crap let's
go no
way dude I genuinely did not think that
one was coming back that was supposed to
be our example of sometimes B pins can
be too
much but it turns out it getting dropped
can be too much besides that you never
know and professional shops can do full
socket Replacements just because we
don't have those capabilities in our
makeshift table tennis table lab here
doesn't mean that anything is
necessarily too far gone when it goes to
socket repairs it's generally only worth
it to do those kinds of repairs on a
very premium board though because
otherwise you're going to spend more
than the value of the board in order to
fix it she's running pretty hot I didn't
even put fresh thermal compound on it
but it's very clear that this system is
working all 32 gigs of RAM are showing
up it works brother damn how far ahead
are we today in total we paid
$352 so far we have fixed
$1,550 worth of
motherboards that's like 250 bucks an
hour it's actually crazy yeah mind you
that's brand new pricing that he's
comparing against and these
realistically are reworked boards now
but even if we had to give a significant
discount on them you know for our small
computer repair shop or Facebook
Marketplace Builder business we're doing
pretty good or if you're just a normal
person you can just get a $250
motherboard for 30 especially if you're
a hobbyist and you already have you know
some fine tools and a microscope or
something like that or you could borrow
one from school or whatever yeah next up
we've got a throwback
x299 back when Intel had a high-end
desktop platform I don't see anything
wrong with it though which is tripping
me out a little bit here yeah this one's
very strange the listing says that it is
broken and the CPU slot has bent pins
MH I do not see any bent pins just going
to look for any like scratched traces on
the back or anything like that I'm
surprised we didn't get more of that
like people accidentally installing an
extra standoff and scratching traces
stuff like that it's pretty common or at
least it used to be and can be a royal
pain in the butt to repair if you can do
it at all cuz you basically have to put
these little tiny traces back together
with a little bit of wire it's beyond my
capabilities can we just throw a CPU in
and see what happens yes we do what are
the odds this one just works I think
it's low I think it's low I I've seen a
lot of these boards die in the field
this is not how statistical probability
works but I feel like we're due for a
failure you
know what the hell unal why does this
work
unreal what did we pay for this we paid
$50 for it we paid 50 bucks for this
board $500 motherboard what just
happened we have fixed
$2,046 worth of
motherboards we paid $350 to and what's
crazy about this is Alex and I were
talking about this before these older
Intel platforms the CPUs are dirt cheap
because the motherboards tend to fail
before the CPUs do how ironic you could
build a system around this thing for
like nothing these days this one was
supposed to be a cautionary tail okay
how many more boards are left no that's
it that's it we have repaired seven of
eight okay I want to go back to that
first one for bonus I want that one now
there's no way there's no way I want it
I could not have scripted this better
like if I was scripting this I would
have had us fail more yeah exactly cuz
this doesn't seem believable guys we
bought these boards on
eBay except the one this makes no sense
okay so this is that first board and the
only one that I have not been able to
successfully boot today I'm
straightening it because it's not long
enough it's missing some of the
material straightening it out and then
I'm trying to get it to reach over I'm
ready to try this one again this one
doesn't make it I think I will forgive
myself CPU and Dam lights are on but as
I recall that was the same behavior we
got last time I think this one might be
hooped I have seen just bios Flash
starts working before he is not wrong
bios flash worked I'm just going to
power cycle her I don't think this is
going to work I don't think so either
however I have seen situations where the
BIOS has become unstable for some reason
and like a really long seos clear like
letting it sit for a week with the
battery out or a bio oh my God I think
it's going to work no way
I was sitting here giving a lecture
on how what there is absolutely no way
this is going to happen but I have seen
it bios flashback for the win I eight of
eight that's great mate what the hell we
didn't even break out the real camera
cuz we didn't think this would work yeah
this this is shot on Colin's iPhone dude
why is it working we're going all the
way to Windows boys holy crap there you
go we're back to the real camera and
we're back to our conclusion this is a
perfectly working motherboard with all
four sticks of ram XMP enabled on a
bowed motherboard other than the little
mangled Corner that doesn't seem to
affect anything this just works what's
our total Alex how' we do we bought
$352 worth of motherboards and we have
made if you go by MSRP
$2,246 worth of motherboards
work eight of eight I cannot believe it
now on the secondhand Market these are
obviously going to qualify as refered or
uh recertified or whatever you want to
call it so we're probably going to end
up somewhere behind that number but it
is still clear that with a little over
$300 us out of our pocket Having Eight
working LGA 1700 motherboards is an
unbelievable bargain yep just like this
span segue yeah that was a pretty bad
one yeah to our sponsor I fix it you
guys got to know who they are by now
right replacement parts comprehensive
guides high quality toolkits all of that
good stuff but now there's more they
just announced their fix Hub power
series let's run through it real quick
first is the 100 wat smart soldering
iron it charges through USBC heats up in
5 seconds and you can even adjust the
tip temperature using a handy web
interface next we've got their portable
soldering station a benchtop setup you
can carry around with you that features
USBC power delivery and boasts up to 8
hours of soldering time on a single
charge finally for their most
comprehensive package there's the
soldering toolkit it's an all-in-one
solution that comes with the power
station soldering iron and a bunch of
other useful tools like an iron cap
mandible wire strippers and angled
tweezers honestly there's so much stuff
in the kit you'll have to check it out
for yourself so head over to our Link in
the description to learn more about
iFixit new fix Hub power series if you
guys enjoyed this video maybe you like
the one where we repaired CPU pins and
tried to see if it was a viable side
hustle not as profitable as motherboards
I'll say that much though spoil I can't
believe it still